In this part of our symposium, we are addressing why and how to help our Bible students overcome
unclean habits.
Now, first of all, why overcome unclean habits?
As teachers, we need to reach the heart of those we study with to understand the God-we-worship
expects this to stop.
Let me show you a verse that you're familiar with many of you, and Peter's letter,
1 Peter chapter 1, and we could use these thoughts here to endeavor to reach the heart
of those we're studying with with why this unclean habit must stop.
Let's read verse 14 through 16, as obedient children stop being molded by the desires
you formerly had in your ignorance.
But like the holy one who called you, become holy yourselves in all your conduct.
For it is written, you must be holy because I am holy.
So it's very clear here, there are things that are Bible studies practiced before, these
unclean habits in their ignorance before they knew Jehovah, before they knew his requirements.
They need to understand he is the holy one, and they have to have their conduct line up
with the holy one that we worship.
And this is not a suggestion as quoting the scripture here in verse 16, it's a must.
They must be holy because Jehovah is holy.
And the following dramatization, note how Nita helps her Bible student to overcome an unclean habit.
Nita and I talked about her, part of me felt a bit scared, part a bit crazy, me knocking on doors,
but I knew this was the right thing to do.
A minister should also be free from all non-medical use of addictive or mind-altering substances.
Non-medical, but taking something when I'm feeling a little stressed,
like maybe I don't know, a little weed?
That's okay, right? And it's for the stress.
I guess I didn't quite understand what medical men.
So we see you during the week.
Yeah, okay.
Thank you, Jody.
Thanks.
We'll be back.
You can guess what our next few studies were about, and you should continue to be made new
in your dominant mental attitude.
Knowing it was wrong was easy, figuring out how to cope without it
wasn't beating it, felt impossible.
Deserve Jehovah felt amazing.
Now next, let's discuss the how to help.
We see how our sister needed,
never to help her Bible student when she became aware of that unclean habit,
but there's some nice thoughts as to how to help our Bible students overcome unclean habits.
Now, we want to be candid and clear from the scriptures, but always remember,
we need to be warm and we need to be
tackful with them.
These habits have a grip on them and we need to display not a judgmental attitude,
but patience and really just imitating Jehovah,
helping them to apply Bible counsel.
Now it's important for the teacher to understand what we're going to share with you next,
and then if you have it clear, you're going to be able to impart it
to your Bible student.
Let's read a familiar scripture in Ephesians chapter 4,
and it's important to understand what we read here as related to helping them overcome unclean
habits that go contrary to Bible principles.
Now notice in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 22, 23 and 24.
You were taught to put away the old personality that conforms to your former course of conduct,
and that has been corrupted according to it, that's the old personality, deceptive desires.
And you should continue to be made new in your dominant mental attitude and should put on
the new personality that was created according to God's will in true righteousness and loyalty.
So, we have to understand this clearly, and then we need to teach our students
there's the old personality. Those of us that came in the truth had old personalities.
We know exactly what Paul's writing to the Ephesians about, and that's a former course of conduct,
that is no longer acceptable. But the key to being able to put on the new personality
and put away the old one is found in verse 23, be made new in your dominant mental attitude.
So, what's that mean? That means your Bible students thinking has to change.
The thinking has to change into this new personality thinking that's guided and directed
by Jehovah and his word. Now, to illustrate what I mean by that, tell you a personal experience
with a Bible study that I had many years ago and really appreciated how Jehovah helped him.
Now, when I studied with him, he was 70, early 70s, and he had smoked cigarettes since he was
8 years old. That's phenomenal. I smoked before I became one of Jehovah's witnesses with decades?
No. So, smoking had a grip on him, that old personality that was very discouraging and
difficult for him. However, he was making progress, coming to meetings, and this one
example that had him with his life will illustrate the point we're making here.
So, I'm working in a department there at the convention, and it's near the lobby area,
and I notice my Bible study, he heads out and programs ongoing, heads out the door,
and out of personal interest, not to police him, I want to go see, is he okay?
So, he's about a block down from the lobby of the convention center, and you know what?
Smoking a cigarette. So, he notices me come up behind him, and it just hits him, and he's
contrived. The shame is all in his face, and he throws that cigarette down, stomps it with his shoe.
So, when I get close to him, he says, I've been asking Jehovah, forgive me, forgive me,
this happens, I always ask him to forgive me, and I said, well, that's commendable,
that's so important, I know you loved Jehovah. However, here's what you need to learn. See,
you need to approach Jehovah before, and supplicate him before you take that cigarette.
And that's what our Bible students need help. It's important that they have to
supplicate Jehovah before that unclean habit overwhelms them, and I'm happy to say he did.
Turn his back on that, supplicated Jehovah, and boy, imagine smoking all those decades,
and died a faithful servant of Jehovah God. So, help your Bible students, and keep that in mind,
they have to change their thinking, and it's our responsibility to make that clear to them.
Now, teach them to, by means of practical assistance, be a dear friend for them,
stay there for them, be available when they need help with something, and just love them, don't be
judgmental, be supportive, and help them to overcome these unclean habits. And very important,
teach them, do not give up. Jehovah loves you. He wants you to rejoice in the progress you're making.
He loves you. And what's your experience when they become a dedicated witness, your fellow
servant of God, you'll have a friend forever. Now, next on our symposium, the final talk,
brother Jeffrey Jackson, remember the governing body is going to consider the talk,
help your Bible students to develop a personal relationship with Jehovah.